Basic Git Commands
Git commands are important for navigating and controlling your project repository. These commands help you manage files, track changes, and collaborate with others.

           Command                                    	Description


   git status	                                  Shows the current status of the repository — staged, unstaged, and untracked files.
   git add <file-name>	                          Stages a specific file for commit. Use git add . to stage all changes.
   git commit -m "message"	                      Commits the staged changes with a descriptive commit message.
   git branch <branch-name>                     	Creates a new branch with the given name.
   git checkout <branch-name>	                  Switches to the specified branch.
   git merge <branch-name>	                      Merges changes from the given branch into the current branch.
   git push origin <branch-name>	                Pushes the local branch changes to the remote repository.
   git pull origin <branch-name>               	Fetches and merges changes from the remote repository into the local branch.
   git log                                      	Displays the commit history for the current branch.




Git workflows define how developers should use Git in a structured and efficient manner.

1. Clone the Repository
git clone git@github.com:username/repository.git

2. Create and Switch to a New Branch
git checkout -b feature-branch

3. Make Changes and Stage Them
git add <file-name>

4. Commit the Changes
git commit -m "Add new feature"

5. Push the Changes
git push origin feature-branch

6. Create a Pull Request: After pushing your changes, create a pull request on GitHub to merge the feature branch into the main branch.

7. Update your Local Repository
git checkout main
git pull origin main
8. Delete Feature Branch:

git branch -d feature-branch
git push origin --delete feature-branch
Git is a crucial tool for modern software development and DevOps. Mastering Git setting up repos, using branches,
and managing code enables efficient collaboration and a streamlined, scalable workflow.






Git Hosting
Git Hosting stores your Git repositories on a remote server, enabling collaboration, backup, pull requests, CI/CD, and even website hosting, while Git manages changes locally.

1. GitHub:
GitHub is a cloud-based Git hosting platform owned by Microsoft, popular for open-source projects and beginner developers. It provides a complete environment for version control, collaboration, and deployment.

Unlimited public and private repositories
Pull requests and code reviews for team collaboration
GitHub Pages for hosting static websites
Automation and CI/CD with GitHub Actions
2. GitLab:

GitLab is a complete DevOps platform offering Git repository hosting along with built-in CI/CD, issue tracking, and project management tools. It is ideal for teams and enterprises looking to automate workflows and manage code efficiently.

Public and private repositories
Built-in CI/CD pipelines for automation
Issue tracking and project management
Option for self-hosting for full control and privacy.
3. Bitbucket:

Bitbucket is a Git hosting platform by Atlassian, designed for private repositories and team collaboration.
It is ideal for small teams or companies seeking a secure environment with tight integration to project management tools.

Private and public repositories
Bitbucket Pipelines for CI/CD automation
Integration with Jira and Trello
Secure and collaborative environment for teams.











