Git - Merge

Git Merge is a command used to combine the changes from two branches into one.
It integrates work from different branches into a single unified history without losing progress.
For example, you can merge a feature branch into the main branch to include all recent updates.

    Preserves the complete commit history of both branches.
    Performs automatic merges unless conflicts require manual resolution.
    Uses fast-forward merge when no diverging commits exist.
    Creates a merge commit to combine branch histories when necessary.
    Does not delete branches after merging.
    Commonly used to integrate feature branches into the main branch.

Types of Merging in Git
Git supports several types of merging. The two most common types are:

1. Fast-forward merging
This occurs when the target branch (e.g., main) is directly ahead of the feature branch (e.g., dev).
Instead of creating a merge commit, Git simply moves the current branch’s tip to the target branch’s tip.
Fast-forward merging is only possible when branches haven't diverged

2. Three-way merging
This type occurs when the base branch has changed since the branch was first created.
Git generates a new merge commit by comparing changes in both branches with the base branch.

Steps to Perform Git Merge
To ensure smooth merging, follow these steps:

Step 1: Create a New Branch
Create a new branch from the remote repository you want to merge.
git branch <new-branch-name>

Step 2: Pull the Latest Changes
Before merging, ensure that you pull the latest changes from both branches (e.g., main and the feature branch).
git checkout <target-branch>    
git pull origin <target-branch>  

git checkout <feature-branch>   
git pull origin <feature-branch> 

Step 3: Merge the Branch
If any conflicts arise, Git will notify you. Resolve them manually before proceeding.

git checkout <target-branch>   
git merge <feature-branch>

Step 4: Test the Merged Code
Make sure the merged code functions correctly by testing it either automatically or manually.

# Run tests or manually test your application
Step 5: Commit the Merged Code
Once satisfied with the merged code, commit the changes:

git commit -m "Merge branch 'dev' into main"
Step 6: Push the Merged Branch
Push the changes to the remote repository to share the new merged branch:

git push origin main
