How to Run a Python Script on Ubuntu

comments
Prev
Next
Here is a step-by-step guide to run a Python script:

Step 1: Check if Python is installed or not
Ubuntu usually comes with Python pre-installed. To check the version:


python3 --version
If Python 3 is already installed on your machine, the command will return your machine. In case it is not installed, you can run the following command and get the Python 3 installation:


sudo apt install python-3 pip
After executing this command it will automatically installed all packages.

python install
python install
Step 2 Write your Python Script
The next step is to write the python code you want to execute. To create a new script , navigate to your directory of choice:


cd Python Script
Inside the directory you need to create a new file . In the terminal execute the following command.


nano myscript.py
This will open blank text editor . write your logic here. After writing your code save the file using Ctrl + O and then exit your file using Ctrl +X.


print('This is our Python Script');
print('We are Running Hello World');
Step 3: Run the Python Script

To run the python Script use the command python3 filename

scriptoutput
scriptoutput

Step 4 Make the Script Executable using shebang

#!/bin/usr/env python3
print(''This is our Python Script');
print('We are running Hello World');
Then make it executable:


chmod +x myscript.py

Now You can run it directly


./myscript.py
Conclusion
Python powers over 70% of DevOps automation tasks due to its simplicity, flexibility, and rich ecosystem. From scripting CI/CD pipelines to managing cloud infrastructure, it streamlines workflows across environments. With libraries like Boto3, Ansible, and Fabric, Python remains a top choice for scalable and efficient DevOps automation.To run the python script on Ubuntu Machine is a striaghtforward process. By understanding how to run Python scripts, you can begin exploring the powerful tools Python offers, including those essential for AI development.

